Adding doc & diagram for end-to-end recursive proving (#1959)
risc0/risc0: website/api/recursion.md

1. The final *SuccinctReceipt* is passed through *identity_p254*, which prepares for Groth16 proving.
1. The *SuccinctReceipt* is *compressed*, generating a *Groth16Receipt*.

The *Groth16Receipt* can now be posted on-chain and verified by the [RISC Zero Verifier Contract].

## Recursive Circuit Architecture

RISC Zero's zkVM consists of three circuits.

1. The RISC-V Circuit is a STARK circuit that proves correct execution of RISC-V programs.
1. The Recursion Circuit is a separate STARK circuit, that's designed to efficiently generate proofs for the verification of STARK proofs and to support the integration of custom accelerator circuits into the zkVM.
This circuit has a similar architecture to the RISC-V Circuit, but with fewer columns and a much simpler instruction set.
The Recursion Circuit supports a number of programs, including [lift], [join], [resolve], and [identity_p254].
The same [proof system] is used for both the RISC-V Circuit and the Recursion Circuit.
1. The STARK-to-SNARK Circuit is an R1CS circuit that proves verification of proofs from the *identity_p254* program.

> *The size of a [Receipt] varies depending on the size of the ReceiptClaim and its ReceiptKind. For SuccinctReceipts and Groth16 Receipts, the size of the *seal* is constant.

Reviewer: I don't think you need this caveat. The proof itself is indeed constant size, and this is true of any ZKP, even as an ideal block box.

# Recursive Proving

RISC Zero's zkVM uses recursive proving in order to achieve unbounded computation size, constant\* proof size, proof aggregation, and proof composition.

> The end-to-end process for proof generation is shown in the following diagram, including links to the associated crate docs:

Reviewer: It's unclear to me what value the links add. Who is this doc aimed at an what are they interested in figuring out? One thing I don't want is to give developers the impression that they need to be using the methods and types linked here, which should be implementation details for most developers.

Reviewer 2: I'm also concerned that these links will go stale over time.

Author: this doc is housed under `reference` and not something that most users would encounter unless they're digging into questions about architecture, or we point them to it directly. 

at this stage, our `reports.risczero.com` page is constructed in a way that is going to invite all sorts of questions about these operations -- e.g. [here](https://discord.com/channels/953703904086994974/1152032592170844180/1247999471758086207). 

i'd like to have an easy-to-link-to & comprehensive answer to these questions so that we don't have to re-explain things a million times.

Author: i'll add an :::info block that clarifies that this doc is provided for informational purposes and that users don't need to use these functions directly

Author: re: stale links... 

not sure how this is any different than everywhere else on the dev docs site...?
note that there's only really like 5 links in the diagram -- would be pretty straight-forward to ctrl-f and update.

Author: i'm open to dropping the links if y'all think that's best but generally don't like having informational dead ends

Author: i guess another option would be to drop the item-by-item links and just add a single link to the ApiClient page? 

/shrug

Reviewer 2: I think most users won't be using the `ApiClient` directly, instead they should use the `Prover` trait.

Author: > I think most users won't be using the ApiClient directly, instead they should use the Prover trait.

Thanks Frank! That's helpful.

1. Pairs of _SuccinctReceipts_ are _joined_, resulting in another _SuccinctReceipt_. This continues until a single _SuccinctReceipt_ remains.
1. The final _SuccinctReceipt_ is passed through _identity_p254_, which prepares for Groth16 proving.
1. The _SuccinctReceipt_ is _compressed_, generating a _Groth16Receipt_.

The _Groth16Receipt_ can now be posted on-chain and verified by the [RISC Zero Verifier Contract].

## Recursive Circuit Architecture

RISC Zero's zkVM consists of three circuits.

1. The RISC-V Circuit is a STARK circuit that proves correct execution of RISC-V programs.
1. The Recursion Circuit is a separate STARK circuit, that's designed to efficiently generate proofs for the verification of STARK proofs and to support the integration of custom accelerator circuits into the zkVM.
   This circuit has a similar architecture to the RISC-V Circuit, but with fewer columns and a much simpler instruction set.
   The Recursion Circuit supports a number of programs, including [lift], [join], [resolve], and [identity_p254].
   The same [proof system] is used for both the RISC-V Circuit and the Recursion Circuit.

> 1. The STARK-to-SNARK Circuit is an R1CS circuit that proves verification of proofs from the _identity_p254_ program.

Reviewer: It's somewhat more accurate to say that it proves verification of proofs from the _recursion circuit_. It's execution is independent of the program that the recursion circuit ran, which is committed to by the control ID passed in as a public input. (This is good, because it means we can change the program without breaking the trusted setup)

> *The size of a [Receipt] varies depending on the size of the ReceiptClaim and its ReceiptKind. For SuccinctReceipts and Groth16 Receipts, the size of the *seal\* is constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think we need this caveat. This is true of every ZKP system, even idealized block box versions. The proof size itself is indeed constant.

# Recursive Proving

RISC Zero's zkVM uses recursive proving in order to achieve unbounded computation size, constant proof size, proof aggregation, and proof composition.

:::tip

[Prover::prove_with_opts][prove_with_opts] allows users to choose between [composite, succinct or groth16 receipts].

:::

The rest of this page describes low-level details that are not necessary for users.

## Recursive Proving Process

The end-to-end process for proof generation is shown in the following diagram.

```mermaid
flowchart TB

execute(".execute()")
--> Session

subgraph Session["<a href='https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Session.html'>Session</a>"]
direction TB

> s1("<a href='https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Segment.html'>Segment</a>")

Reviewer 3: do you want all these links to open in the same window? I typically add target to open in a new tab:

```suggestion
s1("<a target="_blank" href='https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Segment.html'>Segment</a>")
```

If you wanna, this should be a quick find and replace - I am looking too to see if we can declare labels instead of the full URL every time :crossed_fingers:

Author: good call

1. The `join()` program verifies two proofs from the Recursion Prover, using the Recursion Prover. By repeated application of `join()`, any number of receipts for execution spans within the same session can be compressed into a single receipt for the entire session.

1. The `identity_p254()` program verifies a proof from the Recursion Prover using the Poseidon254 hash function. The identity_p254 program is used as the last step in the prover pipeline before running the Groth16 prover.

## STARK-to-SNARK Wrapping
All of the recursion programs in the previous section output a [SuccinctReceipt], which is a STARK proof (~200kB)

The final step in the recursion process is `compress()`, which outputs a [Groth16Receipt], which can be verified on-chain using the [RISC Zero Verifier Contract].

[composite, succinct or groth16 receipts]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/1.0/risc0_zkvm/enum.ReceiptKind.html
[Groth16Receipt]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Groth16Receipt.html

> [proof system]: ../docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md

Reviewer 2: This will break when we promote the version from next to 1.0.

If you are making links from 'unversioned' to 'versioned' or vice-versa (e.g. /api -> /docs) then you need to use absolute links rather than relative ones.

This section tries to describe the reasoning: https://docusaurus.io/docs/versioning#recommended-practices

> [proof system]: ../docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[proof system]: /docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram
```

This will break when we promote the version from next to 1.0.

If you are making links from 'unversioned' to 'versioned' or vice-versa (e.g. /api -> /docs) then you need to use absolute links rather than relative ones.

This section tries to describe the reasoning: https://docusaurus.io/docs/versioning#recommended-practices

> [proof system]: ../../docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[proof system]: /docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram
```

This will break when we promote the version from next to 1.0.

If you are making links from 'unversioned' to 'versioned' or vice-versa (e.g. /api -> /docs) then you need to use absolute links rather than relative ones.

This section tries to describe the reasoning: https://docusaurus.io/docs/versioning#recommended-practices

# Recursive Proving

RISC Zero's zkVM uses recursive proving in order to achieve unbounded computation size, constant proof size, proof aggregation, and proof composition.

:::tip

> [prove_with_opts] allows users to choose between [composite, succinct or groth16 receipts].

Reviewer: Just to add a little more context to where they can find the function.
```suggestion
[Prover::prove_with_opts][prove_with_opts] allows users to choose between [composite, succinct or groth16 receipts].
```

suc41-->compress(".compress()")

compress-->groth16("<a href='https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Groth16Receipt.html'>Groth16Receipt</a>")
```

To summarize the diagram:

1. The program is _executed_, resulting in a collection of _Segments_.
1. Each _Segment_ is proven, resulting in a _SegmentReceipt_.
1. Each _SegmentReceipt_ is _lifted_, resulting in a _SuccinctReceipt_.
1. Pairs of _SuccinctReceipts_ are _joined_, resulting in another _SuccinctReceipt_. This continues until a single _SuccinctReceipt_ remains.
1. The final _SuccinctReceipt_ is passed through _identity_p254_, which prepares for Groth16 proving.
1. The _SuccinctReceipt_ is _compressed_, generating a _Groth16Receipt_.

The _Groth16Receipt_ can now be posted on-chain and verified by the [RISC Zero Verifier Contract].

## Recursive Circuit Architecture

RISC Zero's zkVM consists of three circuits.

1. The RISC-V Circuit is a STARK circuit that proves correct execution of RISC-V programs.
1. The Recursion Circuit is a separate STARK circuit, that's designed to efficiently generate proofs for the verification of STARK proofs and to support the integration of custom accelerator circuits into the zkVM.

>    This circuit has a similar architecture to the RISC-V Circuit, but with fewer columns and a much simpler instruction set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This circuit has a similar architecture to the RISC-V Circuit, but with fewer columns and an instruction set optimized for cryptography.
```

   The same [proof system] is used for both the RISC-V Circuit and the Recursion Circuit.

> 1. The STARK-to-SNARK Circuit is an R1CS circuit that proves verification of proofs from the Recursion Circuit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The STARK-to-SNARK Circuit is an R1CS circuit that verifies proofs from the Recursion Circuit.
```

## Recursion Programs

> The Recursion Circuit supports a number of programs, including `lift()`, `join()`, `resolve()`, and `identity_p254()`.

Reviewer: In this context, these names are references to named programs rather than functions, so the parenthesis don't really make sense.
```suggestion
The Recursion Circuit supports a number of programs, including `lift`, `join`, `resolve`, and `identity_p254`.
```

> Instead, users should access recursion via the [Prover].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are using internally to the [Prover] implementations to produce [SuccinctReceipt] and [Groth16Receipt].
```

> To aid in conceptual understanding, we offer the following explanations of the recursion programs:
> 

Reviewer: I don't actually think this line adds much
```suggestion
```

> 1. The `lift()` program verifies a STARK proof from the RISC-V Prover, using the Recursion Prover. This recursion proof has a single constant-time verification procedure, with respect to the original segment length, and is then used as the input to all other recursion programs (e.g. join, resolve, and identity_p254).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `lift` program verifies a STARK proof from the RISC-V Prover, using the Recursion Prover. This recursion proof has a single constant-time verification procedure, with respect to the original segment length, and is then used as the input to all other recursion programs (e.g. join, resolve, and identity_p254).
```

> 1. The `join()` program verifies two proofs from the Recursion Prover, using the Recursion Prover. By repeated application of `join()`, any number of receipts for execution spans within the same session can be compressed into a single receipt for the entire session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `join` program verifies two proofs from the Recursion Prover, using the Recursion Prover. By repeated application of `join`, any number of receipts for execution spans within the same session can be compressed into a single receipt for the entire session.
```

> 1. The `identity_p254()` program verifies a proof from the Recursion Prover using the Poseidon254 hash function. The identity_p254 program is used as the last step in the prover pipeline before running the Groth16 prover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `identity_p254` program verifies a proof from the Recursion Prover using the Recursion Prover with the Poseidon254 hash function. The identity_p254 program is used as the last step in the prover pipeline before running the Groth16 prover.
```

## STARK-to-SNARK Wrapping

All of the recursion programs in the previous section output a [SuccinctReceipt], which is a STARK proof (~200kB)

The final step in the recursion process is `compress()`, which outputs a [Groth16Receipt], which can be verified on-chain using the [RISC Zero Verifier Contract].

[composite, succinct or groth16 receipts]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/1.0/risc0_zkvm/enum.ReceiptKind.html
[Groth16Receipt]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Groth16Receipt.html

> [proof system]: /docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[proof system]: /docs/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md
```

Remember #1972 :wink:

Reviewer 3: @pdg744 you forgot to include changes from main that updated yarn - you must run `yarn` to install docusaurus 3.4.0 locally . Just merged main for you.

Strangely I cannot for the life of me resolve the right link :face_exhaling:  any ideas?

Reviewer 3: with .md I CANNOT get anything to work. Without md, any path "works" but does not show up

![image](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/assets/35669742/1d51ab40-8d85-4e80-9bc2-c6b962464b89)

![Uploading image.png…]()

Reviewer 3: This works locally for me now, without the .md - but not for the "right" reason with the link checker: 

![image](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/assets/35669742/1214a4be-4276-47af-89dd-aab6a594efe1)
